docs: Cancun hip design document (#11253)
hashgraph/hedera-services: hedera-node/docs/design/services/smart-contract-service/cancun-fork-support.md

# Cancun Fork Support

## Purpose

> There Ethereum "Cancun" hard introduces a number of changes to the EVM that will need to be implemented to maintain EVM

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Ethereum "Cancun" hardfork introduces a number of changes to the EVM that will need to be implemented to maintain EVM
```

> Equivalence. There are four different HIPs covering this feature (HIP-865: Add EVM Support for transient storage and

Reviewer: Should turn this into a list 
```suggestion
Equivalence. There are four different HIPs covering this feature 
- HIP-865: Add EVM Support for transient storage
- HIP-866: Add EVM compatibility for non-supported Cancun blob features
- HIP-867: Add Smart Contract Services Support for KZG Point Evaluation Precompiled Function
- HIP-868: Support Cancun Self-Destruct
```

memory copy Cancun opcodes, HIP-866: Add EVM compatibility for non-supported Cancun blob features, HIP-867: Add Smart
Contract Services Support for KZG Point Evaluation Precompiled Function, and HIP-868: Support Cancun Self-Destruct
Semantics in Smart Contract Services //TODO link hips once numbers are assigned and published). This document describes
how the HIPs will be implemented in Hedera Services.

Generally speaking there are four strategies that will be adopted:

1. Adopt without change. This includes the `MCOPY`, `TSTORE`, and `TLOAD` operations as well as the KZG precompile.
2. Adapt with Hedera Considerations. This includes the `SELFDESTRUCT` changes.
3. Do not adopt but stub out placeholders. This includes the `VERSIONEDHASH` and `BLOBBASEFEE` operations.
4. Do not adopt. This includes all Blob handling and the "Type 3" blob transaction.

> ### Example User Story

Reviewer: Let's have more specific user stories highlighting the capabilities to users

  available in the Cancun fork.
* As a Hedera developer, I want to preserve maximum furuture design space to adopt, adopt, or not adopt blobs.
* As an end user, I want prompt and accurate faiures if I attempt to use Blob features in Hedera.

## Goals

The principal goal is to maintain EVM and Solidity/Vyper/etc. compatibility, where the bytecode from contracts compiled
with Cancun enabled smart contract compilers still function correctly.

Where inclusion of features don't requre additional work, they too should be included.

Where we have existing overrides, opcodes that change those behaviors should still operate in a fashion that is in
harmony with the EVM equivalence requirements and the Hedera requirements to the extent possible. Working with Hedera
takes priority when there is unavoidable conflict.

Opcodes that interact with blobs should not cause the contracts to break, but should not require blobs to work.

## Non Goals

It is not a goal to introduce blobs into Hedera. It is also not a goal to restrict design space nor to dictate future
design directions for support or non-support of blobs.

## Implementation

### New Cancun EVM

> A new EVM version will be created that will be based off of the Cancun EVM. Simply activating the Cancun EVM should get

Reviewer: Cna we be explicit on what activating means? E.g. what config needs to be xhanged and to what?

us access to the following features:

* `MCOPY` operation
* `TLOAD` and `TSTORE` operations
* `VERSIONEDHASH` and `BLOBBASEFEE` Operations that query the `TxValues` Object
* KZG Precompiled contract

### Set Correct Values in TxValues

There are two new fields in the `TxValues` object that need to be set correctly. We need to ensure

> that `versionedHashes` is st to an empty list and that `blobGasPrice` is set to one. We should be able to do that in all

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that `versionedHashes` is set to an empty list and that `blobGasPrice` is set to one. We should be able to do that in all
```

> that `versionedHashes` is st to an empty list and that `blobGasPrice` is set to one. We should be able to do that in all

Reviewer: Set them in the EVM versions how? Is there a specific class that needs to be updated or a a method that needs to be overrided?

EVM versions so setting them unconditionally in the `MessageFrame` construction in `HederaEvmTxProcessor` should be
sufficient.

### Update HederaSelfDestructOperation behavior

> Either with a new class or a class that takes a constructor parameter, update the HederaSelfDestructOperation so that it

Reviewer: Please specify which option the implementation should follow. Feel free to not that the other wasn't chosen for reason X
